Prediction of appliances energy use in smart homes

This paper introduces methods for prediction of energy consumption of different devices in homes. The raw data comes from a set of homes in France. The performance of the predictors is studied and two processing are proposed to improve the performance of the predictors.

Firstly, the paper discusses the need for energy prediction in housing. The basic concepts of Smart Grid are introduced in this part which is a very important topic in energy prediction field. Some traditional methods of energy load management are also introduced here. In order to obtain good prices for the traded energy, energy supplier need to predict the next day consumption more precisely. Since households and services, etc. take 37.1% of energy consumption by sector which is the biggest part, predicting the energy consumption in the housing sector is essential for the energy prediction though it is a hard one. The smart home plays an important role in smart grid which has close interactive between Power retailer about energy demands. To compute the energy plan of the house and the energy forecast more effectively, energy consumption in smart homes need to be optimized.

In the next part, energy prediction methodology for appliances in homes are presented. An assessment of predictors is set up at the first stage. The precision of the predictor is expressed by a function of hour. More weights are given to the prediction results which are close to the current hour. The prediction has different predictors such as the “will always consume” which means the appliance will consume energy permanently; the “will never consume” means the service will not consume at all in the next day; the “ARMA”(Auto Regressive Moving Average),  where the current value of a time variable is assumed to be a function of its past values; and the proposed predictor which model the energy consumption as a stochastic process. The result shows that “ARMA” is not proper for predicting energy consumption in case of a singular appliance in a home; and the proposed predictor performs better than the basic predictors. 

To improve the prediction precision, two processing are applied to the model ---- Segmentation and aggregation.  Segmentation means choosing a specific segment of data such as the data in the same season, month or period of the day, etc. The objective of this operation is to reduce the average dispersion in order to improve the prediction. Here the paper uses a temporal segmentation that considers each day of the week as a partition. The proposed predictor is applied on each hour of the day. Aggregation means then merging similar partitions together. K-means Clustering algorithm is used to group the similar consumption days in order to make the segments more meaningful. K-means finally gives us two clusters which are weekdays data and Saturday & Sunday data. Then the initial data is divided into 2 sets according to the clusters and segments. After the applying the proposed predictor on clustered and segmented data, the precision of predictor increases.

In the last part, the paper introduces global study of the services in the house. Here the global means predicting the energy consumption of different electrical devices in the house. The prediction precision for the refrigerator and freezer shows that a short period of time is significant for prediction if the appliances consume energy strongly depend on season. When predicting the consumption of TV or non-halogen lighting, the proposed predictor is better than the basic predictors all the time.

In conclusion, forecasting the energy consumption in homes is an important aspect in the power management of the grid. Make the prediction for energy consumption of house appliances means a lot to the grid. Since the energy consumptions in housing varies dramatically due to the inhabitant’s behavior, stochastic method has been chosen in this paper and be proved as a better one compared with other basic predictors. Segmentation and aggregation are applied to improve the performance of the proposed predictor using K-means clustering algorithm. Further work focuses on the equipment level prediction for all appliances in a house which is more powerful than a house level prediction.