Data driven prediction models of energy use of appliances in a low-energy house

This paper discusses data-driven predictive models for the energy use of appliances. The purpose of this work is to understand the relationships between appliances energy consumption and different predictors. Data filtering is used for removing non-predictive parameters and feature ranking in this paper. Multiple linear regression, SVM with radial kernel, random forest and GBM are trained with repeated cross validation and evaluated in a testing set.

In the beginning, the paper shows us the importance of the appliances energy use in buildings, such as determining adequate sizing of photovoltaics and energy storage, detecting abnormal energy use patterns and so on. Literature review part introduces some existing researches on this topic about numerical model and electricity load prediction. The paper sums up the following points for the paper review section: (1) Appliances level energy consumption is significant to residential sector and grid; (2) It is important to identify which appliance is more deciding to the energy consumption; (3) The energy consumptions of appliances may be broken down into different contributions; (4) The patterns for energy use of appliances can vary significantly; (5) Weather parameters have been proven relevant to predict the electricity energy consumption in buildings; (6) The thermal influence of appliances on internal gains is important in building energy performance for highly insulated buildings.

The second section is about the house, where the data comes from. Basic information and energy usage of the house is presented in this part. The electric energy metering at the passive house was done with M-BUS energy counters. The house temperature and humidity conditions were monitored with a ZigBee wireless sensor network built with XBee radios.

The next part is about data recording and description. The energy data logged every 10 min. Lights, temperature and humidity recordings are all be averaged and recorded every 10 min periods and merged with the energy data set by date and time. The data from the nearest airport weather station is merged by date and time in this study since there is no weather station outside the house. There are totally 32 variables (31 features by dropping data time stamp). 

The paper uses psych package to generate pairs plot. These plots illustrate the relationships between variables. Some significant relationships could be obtained such as positive correlation between the energy consumption of appliances and lights, temperature in living room area, outdoor temperature, NSM (the number of seconds from midnight for each day) and so on. Negative correlation between appliances and outdoor humidity, humidity outside weather station, pressure and so on. Boruta package is used for comparing importance of attributes with importance of shadow attributes that are created by shuffling original ones. The Boruta algorithm ranks the variables in order of importance starting with the NSM variable to the Week-Status. The Classification and Regression Training package (CARET) has a RFE algorithm and is used in this study to select the optimal inputs with the r package dummies. After transforming Week status and day of the week to dummy variables, there are a total of 35 predictors used for prediction. After random forest with 10-fold cross validation, RFE algorithm shows that the optimal number of predictors is 34.

4 regression models (lm, SVM-radial, random forest and GBM) are trained with 10 fold cross validation to select the best. The doParallel package was used for parallel computation to speed up the program here. RMSE, R-squared, MAE and MAPE are used here to compare the performance of each of the regression model. Linear Model is proved to be improper for this case. The result shows that GBM is the best model according to RMSE and R-squared. RF and GBM models have very similar performance based on their RMSE and R-squared values. The result shows that GBM model without the light predictor is the most accurate. When looking at the ranking for the GBM model with no light information, we can come up with a conclusion that the information from the kitchen, living room, laundry room, bathroom, outdoors, office and bedrooms are the most important. A particular limitation of this study is that the analysis was done for only one house. Also, the sensitivity and accuracy of the sensor could also affect the result.

In conclusion, the GBM and RF models are proved to be better than SVM-radial and multiple LM models. The weather data from the nearby weather station and the humidity and temperature data from a wireless sensor can increase the prediction accuracy in the GBM models. Light consumption is ranked highly when using all the predictors, while appeared not to have a significant impact when studying different predictor subsets. Future work on considering more weather data, occupancy and occupant’s activity information could be useful to improve the prediction accuracy.