A review of artificial intelligence based building energy use prediction: Contrasting the capabilities of single and ensemble prediction models

This paper conducts a comprehensive review of articles about single AI-based methods such as multiple linear regression, artificial neural networks, and support vector regression, compared with ensemble prediction method which is combination of multiple single AI-based prediction models.

AI-based prediction method predicts building energy use according to its correlated variables such as environmental conditions, building characteristics, and occupancy status. The following literature review part explains the current research trends of AI-based building energy use and some of the frequently used features in these studies. The review shows that single prediction method is widely used for AI-based building energy use prediction, while ensemble prediction methods are very limited. This paper shows us some conclusions based on the related researches:
(1) Learning models: the mainly used learning models could be classified into four categories: regression, ANN, SVR, and all others.
(2) Building type: educational and research building takes a percentage of 42%, while 33% are commercial buildings.
(3) Energy type: the predicted energy may be classified into five categories, which are whole building energy/electricity, heating & cooling energy, heating energy, cooling energy, and all others.
(4) Prediction time scale: most of the researches choose hour as the time scale. There are also some scales like day, year, minute, 15 min, week and month.
(5) Input data type: 60% of the articles used meteorological data; Only 29% utilized occupancy information to develop their prediction models.

Then the paper introduces AI-based prediction models. Data collection, data preprocessing, model training and model testing are the four main steps of AI-based prediction method. In this part, some commonly used single prediction methods like multiple LM, artificial neural network, SVM and so on. Then the ensemble prediction methods which are implemented by the following steps: (1) Input feature identification; (2) Data monitoring and preprocessing; (3) Learning algorithm selection; (4) Base model generation; (5) Model integration. Generally, the ensemble method is consisting of many single learning methods with different weights. The weight of each base model is assigned based on its prediction accuracy, which means that the one with the least prediction errors may have the highest weight. The generalization ability of an ensemble model is stronger than that of a single model.

There are many cases where ensemble prediction methods are applied, which are discussed in the next part in the paper. Even though ensemble learning methods have been successfully applied in the area of face recognition, medical diagnosis, and gene expression analysis, their use in the area of building energy use prediction did not commence until 2014.

Further discussion shows that reliability, ease of implementation and fast computation speed is the main advantages of single prediction method, while limited prediction accuracy and reliability is the disadvantages especially when compared to the ensemble prediction method. The particular advantage of ensemble prediction method is that it remarkably improved prediction accuracy and stability. However, ensemble prediction method requires more computation time and high level of knowledge. Also, ensemble prediction method is the fact that its prediction performance highly depends on the selection of base models. Advantages and disadvantages of AI-based prediction methods are also discussed in this part.

In conclusion, this is a comprehensive review of AI-based methods for building energy use prediction with a special focus on ensemble prediction methods. The type of studied buildings, the methods used for prediction, the type of predicted energies, the time scale of the prediction and the type of input data used for prediction is the 5 main aspects that current research works on. Two main categories of AI-based prediction methods are the single prediction methods and the ensemble prediction methods. A comparison of the single and ensemble prediction methods is conducted in the paper. A discussion of advantages and disadvantages of AI-based prediction models is provided. Finally, future works of the research on AI-based building energy use prediction are also covered in this paper.